README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kilocode.Kilo-Code"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code_Marketplace-007ACC?style=flat&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=white" alt="VS Code Marketplace"></a>
  <a href="https://x.com/kilocode"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/kilocode-000000?style=flat&logo=x&logoColor=white" alt="X (Twitter)"></a>
  <a href="https://blog.kilo.ai"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Blog-555?style=flat&logo=substack&logoColor=white" alt="Substack Blog"></a>
  <a href="https://kilo.ai/discord"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20Discord-5865F2?style=flat&logo=discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord"></a>
  <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/kilocode/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20r%2Fkilocode-D84315?style=flat&logo=reddit&logoColor=white" alt="Reddit"></a>
</p>

# 🚀 Kilo

> Kilo is the all-in-one agentic engineering platform. Build, ship, and iterate faster with the most popular open source coding agent.
> #1 on OpenRouter. 750k+ Kilo Coders. 6.1 trillion tokens used per month.

- ✨ Generate code from natural language
- ✅ Checks its own work
- 🧪 Run terminal commands
- 🌐 Automate the browser
- 🤖 Latest AI models
- 🎁 API keys optional
- 💡 **Get $20 in bonus credits when you top-up for the first time** Credits can be used with 500+ models like Gemini 3 Pro, Claude 4.5 Sonnet & Opus, and GPT-5

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/Kilo-Org/kilocode/main/kilo.gif" width="100%" />
</p>

- [VS Code Marketplace](https://kilo.ai/vscode-marketplace?utm_source=Readme) (download)
- [Official Kilo.ai Home page](https://kilo.ai) (learn more)

## Key Features

- **Code Generation:** Kilo can generate code using natural language.
- **Task Automation:** Kilo can automate repetitive coding tasks.
- **Automated Refactoring:** Kilo can refactor and improve existing code.
- **MCP Server Marketplace**: Kilo can easily find, and use MCP servers to extend the agent capabilities.
- **Multi Mode**: Plan with Architect, Code with Coder, and Debug with Debugger, and make your own custom modes.

## How to get started with Kilo

1. Install the Kilo Code extension from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kilocode.Kilo-Code).
2. Create your account to access 500+ cutting-edge AI models including Gemini 3 Pro, Claude 4.5 Sonnet & Opus, and GPT-5 – with transparent pricing that matches provider rates exactly.
3. Start coding with AI that adapts to your workflow. Watch our quick-start guide to see Kilo in action:

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/pqGfYXgrhig/maxresdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/pqGfYXgrhig)

## Extension Development

For details on building and developing the extension, see [DEVELOPMENT.md](/DEVELOPMENT.md)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Get started by reading our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md). Or join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/kilocode) to chat with the team and community.

Thanks to all the contributors who help make Kilo better!

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/mcowger">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1929548?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="mcowger" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/bhaktatejas922">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26863466?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="bhaktatejas922" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/NyxJae">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/52313587?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="NyxJae" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/Aikiboy123">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/161741275?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="Aikiboy123" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/cobra91">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1060585?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="cobra91" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/ivanarifin">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/111653938?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="ivanarifin" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/PeterDaveHello">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3691490?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="PeterDaveHello" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/possible055">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38576169?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="possible055" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/seuros">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2394703?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="seuros" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/Kilo-Org/kilocode/graphs/contributors">
        <b>more ...</b>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Commit message:

docs: add inline autocomplete to README features
Add inline autocomplete as a feature in both the quick overview
bullet list and the Key Features section.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kilocode.Kilo-Code"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code_Marketplace-007ACC?style=flat&logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=white" alt="VS Code Marketplace"></a>
  <a href="https://x.com/kilocode"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/kilocode-000000?style=flat&logo=x&logoColor=white" alt="X (Twitter)"></a>
  <a href="https://blog.kilo.ai"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Blog-555?style=flat&logo=substack&logoColor=white" alt="Substack Blog"></a>
  <a href="https://kilo.ai/discord"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20Discord-5865F2?style=flat&logo=discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord"></a>
  <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/kilocode/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20r%2Fkilocode-D84315?style=flat&logo=reddit&logoColor=white" alt="Reddit"></a>
</p>

# 🚀 Kilo

> Kilo is the all-in-one agentic engineering platform. Build, ship, and iterate faster with the most popular open source coding agent.
> #1 on OpenRouter. 750k+ Kilo Coders. 6.1 trillion tokens used per month.

- ✨ Generate code from natural language
- ✅ Checks its own work
- 🧪 Run terminal commands
- 🌐 Automate the browser
- ⚡ Inline autocomplete suggestions
- 🤖 Latest AI models
- 🎁 API keys optional
- 💡 **Get $20 in bonus credits when you top-up for the first time** Credits can be used with 500+ models like Gemini 3 Pro, Claude 4.5 Sonnet & Opus, and GPT-5

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://media.githubusercontent.com/media/Kilo-Org/kilocode/main/kilo.gif" width="100%" />
</p>

- [VS Code Marketplace](https://kilo.ai/vscode-marketplace?utm_source=Readme) (download)
- [Official Kilo.ai Home page](https://kilo.ai) (learn more)

## Key Features

- **Code Generation:** Kilo can generate code using natural language.
- **Inline Autocomplete:** Get intelligent code completions as you type, powered by AI.
- **Task Automation:** Kilo can automate repetitive coding tasks.
- **Automated Refactoring:** Kilo can refactor and improve existing code.
- **MCP Server Marketplace**: Kilo can easily find, and use MCP servers to extend the agent capabilities.
- **Multi Mode**: Plan with Architect, Code with Coder, and Debug with Debugger, and make your own custom modes.

## How to get started with Kilo

1. Install the Kilo Code extension from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kilocode.Kilo-Code).
2. Create your account to access 500+ cutting-edge AI models including Gemini 3 Pro, Claude 4.5 Sonnet & Opus, and GPT-5 – with transparent pricing that matches provider rates exactly.
3. Start coding with AI that adapts to your workflow. Watch our quick-start guide to see Kilo in action:

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/pqGfYXgrhig/maxresdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/pqGfYXgrhig)

## Extension Development

For details on building and developing the extension, see [DEVELOPMENT.md](/DEVELOPMENT.md)

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Get started by reading our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md). Or join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/kilocode) to chat with the team and community.

Thanks to all the contributors who help make Kilo better!

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/mcowger">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1929548?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="mcowger" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/bhaktatejas922">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26863466?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="bhaktatejas922" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/NyxJae">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/52313587?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="NyxJae" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/Aikiboy123">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/161741275?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="Aikiboy123" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/cobra91">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1060585?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="cobra91" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/ivanarifin">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/111653938?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="ivanarifin" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/PeterDaveHello">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3691490?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="PeterDaveHello" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/possible055">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38576169?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="possible055" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/seuros">
        <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2394703?size=100" width="100" height="100" alt="seuros" style="border-radius: 50%;" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      <a href="https://github.com/Kilo-Org/kilocode/graphs/contributors">
        <b>more ...</b>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
