apps/kilocode-docs/pages/automate/code-reviews.md, before:

---
title: "Code Reviews"
description: "Automate code reviews with AI assistance"
---

# Code Reviews

Kilo's **Code Reviews** feature automatically analyzes your pull requests using an AI model of your choice. It can review code the moment a PR is opened or updated, surface issues, and provide structured feedback across performance, security, style, and test coverage.

## What Code Reviews Enable

- Automated AI review on every pull request
- Consistent feedback based on your team’s standards
- Automatic detection of bugs, security risks, and anti-patterns
- Deep reasoning over changed files, diffs, and repo context
- Customizable review strictness and focus areas

## Prerequisites

Before enabling Code Reviews:

- **GitHub Integration must be configured**  
  Connect your account via the [Integrations tab](https://app.kilo.ai/integrations) so that the Review Agent can access your repositories.

## Cost

- **Compute and review time are free during limited beta**
    - Feedback is welcome in the Code Reviews beta Discord channel:
        - [Kilo Discord](https://discord.gg/hZnd57qN)
- **Kilo Code credits are still used** when the agent performs model reasoning during a review.

## How to Use

1. Go to the **Review Agent** section in your Kilo Code [personal](https://app.kilo.ai/profile) or [Organization](https://app.kilo.ai/organizations) dashboard.
2. Toggle **Enable AI Code Review** to automatically review PRs on open/update.
3. Choose an **AI Model** (e.g., Grok Code Fast 1).
4. Select a **Review Style**:
    - Strict
    - Balanced
    - Lenient
5. Choose which **repositories** should receive automatic reviews.
6. Optionally select **Focus Areas** such as:
    - Security vulnerabilities
    - Performance issues
    - Bug detection
    - Code style
    - Test coverage
    - Documentation gaps
7. Set a **maximum review time** (5–30 minutes).
8. Add **custom instructions** to shape how the agent reviews your code.

Once configured, the Review Agent will run automatically on PR events.

## How Code Reviews Work

- When a pull request is opened or updated:
    1. The Review Agent receives the PR metadata, diff, and file context.
    2. The selected model analyzes all changes.
    3. The agent applies your chosen review style and focus areas.
    4. It generates a structured review with:
        - Inline comments
        - Summary findings
        - Suggested fixes
        - Risk and severity tagging
- Reviews respect the **maximum time limit** you set.
- Only repositories you’ve selected will trigger automatic analysis.

Reviews are posted directly in GitHub as if coming from a team reviewer.

## Review Styles

### Strict

- Flags all potential issues
- Emphasizes correctness, quality, and security
- Useful for mission-critical code paths or production services

### Balanced

- Most popular option
- Prioritizes clarity and practicality
- Surfaces important issues without overwhelming noise

### Lenient

- Flags only critical issues
- Encouraging and lightweight
- Ideal for exploratory PRs, prototypes, or early WIP reviews

## Focus Areas

You can tailor what the Review Agent pays attention to:

### Security Vulnerabilities

- SQL injection
- XSS
- Unsafe APIs
- Secrets and credential exposure

### Performance Issues

- N+1 queries
- Inefficient loops
- High-complexity functions

### Bug Detection

- Logic errors
- Edge-case failures
- Incorrect assumptions

### Code Style

- Formatting
- Naming conventions
- Readability improvements

### Test Coverage

- Missing or inadequate tests
- Uncovered logic paths

### Documentation

- Missing comments
- Unclear APIs

## Perfect For

The Review Agent is ideal for:

- **Teams wanting consistent, real-time PR reviews**
- **Small teams without dedicated reviewers**
- **Large repos where issues are easy to miss**
- **High-velocity engineering orgs shipping many daily PRs**
- **Security-focused environments requiring strict gates**
- **Educating junior developers with rich explanations**

## Limitations and Guidance

- Reviews can run for **up to 30 minutes** depending on your setting.
- The agent reviews **only the changed files**, not the entire repository.
- Some highly dynamic or domain-specific code may require additional context in custom instructions.
- The agent will only run on **selected repositories**.
- During beta, review capacity may be throttled for extremely large PRs.

Commit message:

Add Review mode to Code Reviewer docs

apps/kilocode-docs/pages/automate/code-reviews.md, after:

---
title: "Code Reviews"
description: "Automate code reviews with AI assistance"
---

# Code Reviews

Kilo's **Code Reviews** feature automatically analyzes your pull requests using an AI model of your choice. It can review code the moment a PR is opened or updated, surface issues, and provide structured feedback across performance, security, style, and test coverage.

## What Code Reviews Enable

- Automated AI review on every pull request
- Consistent feedback based on your team’s standards
- Automatic detection of bugs, security risks, and anti-patterns
- Deep reasoning over changed files, diffs, and repo context
- Customizable review strictness and focus areas

## Prerequisites

Before enabling Code Reviews:

- **GitHub Integration must be configured**  
  Connect your account via the [Integrations tab](https://app.kilo.ai/integrations) so that the Review Agent can access your repositories.

## Cost

- **Compute and review time are free during limited beta**
    - Feedback is welcome in the Code Reviews beta Discord channel:
        - [Kilo Discord](https://discord.gg/hZnd57qN)
- **Kilo Code credits are still used** when the agent performs model reasoning during a review.

## How to Use

1. Go to the **Review Agent** section in your Kilo Code [personal](https://app.kilo.ai/profile) or [Organization](https://app.kilo.ai/organizations) dashboard.
2. Toggle **Enable AI Code Review** to automatically review PRs on open/update.
3. Choose an **AI Model** (e.g., Grok Code Fast 1).
4. Select a **Review Style**:
    - Strict
    - Balanced
    - Lenient
5. Choose which **repositories** should receive automatic reviews.
6. Optionally select **Focus Areas** such as:
    - Security vulnerabilities
    - Performance issues
    - Bug detection
    - Code style
    - Test coverage
    - Documentation gaps
7. Set a **maximum review time** (5–30 minutes).
8. Add **custom instructions** to shape how the agent reviews your code.

Once configured, the Review Agent will run automatically on PR events.

## Local Code Reviews
Code Reviewer is also available locally via the new Review Mode. Simply select 'Review mode' from the mode dropdown after making local changes, and click 'Send' for AI-powered feedback and suggestions. This is valuable for developers who want to review their code before pushing a pull request to their team publicly, or for developers who want reviews and don't need to ship a pull request to GitHub.

## How Code Reviews Work

- When a pull request is opened or updated:
    1. The Review Agent receives the PR metadata, diff, and file context.
    2. The selected model analyzes all changes.
    3. The agent applies your chosen review style and focus areas.
    4. It generates a structured review with:
        - Inline comments
        - Summary findings
        - Suggested fixes
        - Risk and severity tagging
- Reviews respect the **maximum time limit** you set.
- Only repositories you’ve selected will trigger automatic analysis.

Reviews are posted directly in GitHub as if coming from a team reviewer.

## Review Styles

### Strict

- Flags all potential issues
- Emphasizes correctness, quality, and security
- Useful for mission-critical code paths or production services

### Balanced

- Most popular option
- Prioritizes clarity and practicality
- Surfaces important issues without overwhelming noise

### Lenient

- Flags only critical issues
- Encouraging and lightweight
- Ideal for exploratory PRs, prototypes, or early WIP reviews

## Focus Areas

You can tailor what the Review Agent pays attention to:

### Security Vulnerabilities

- SQL injection
- XSS
- Unsafe APIs
- Secrets and credential exposure

### Performance Issues

- N+1 queries
- Inefficient loops
- High-complexity functions

### Bug Detection

- Logic errors
- Edge-case failures
- Incorrect assumptions

### Code Style

- Formatting
- Naming conventions
- Readability improvements

### Test Coverage

- Missing or inadequate tests
- Uncovered logic paths

### Documentation

- Missing comments
- Unclear APIs

## Perfect For

The Review Agent is ideal for:

- **Teams wanting consistent, real-time PR reviews**
- **Small teams without dedicated reviewers**
- **Large repos where issues are easy to miss**
- **High-velocity engineering orgs shipping many daily PRs**
- **Security-focused environments requiring strict gates**
- **Educating junior developers with rich explanations**

## Limitations and Guidance

- Reviews can run for **up to 30 minutes** depending on your setting.
- The agent reviews **only the changed files**, not the entire repository.
- Some highly dynamic or domain-specific code may require additional context in custom instructions.
- The agent will only run on **selected repositories**.
- During beta, review capacity may be throttled for extremely large PRs.
