apps/kilocode-docs/pages/ai-providers/inception.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Inception
---

# Using Inception With Kilo Code

Inception provides access to cutting-edge AI models with a focus on performance and reliability. Their infrastructure is designed for enterprise-grade applications requiring consistent, high-quality outputs.

**Website:** [https://inception.ai](https://inception.ai)

## Getting an API Key

1. **Sign Up/Sign In:** Go to the [Inception Platform](https://platform.inception.ai). Create an account or sign in.
2. **Navigate to API Keys:** Access the API Keys section in your account settings.
3. **Create a Key:** Click "Create new API key". Give your key a descriptive name (e.g., "Kilo Code").
4. **Copy the Key:** **Important:** Copy the API key _immediately_. You will not be able to see it again. Store it securely.

## Supported Models

Kilo Code supports Inception's available models. Model selection and capabilities may vary based on your account tier.

Refer to the [Inception documentation](https://docs.inception.ai) for the most up-to-date list of supported models and their specific capabilities.

## Configuration in Kilo Code

1. **Open Kilo Code Settings:** Click the gear icon ({% codicon name="gear" /%}) in the Kilo Code panel.
2. **Select Provider:** Choose "Inception" from the "API Provider" dropdown.
3. **Enter API Key:** Paste your Inception API key into the "Inception API Key" field.
4. **Select Model:** Choose your desired model from the "Model" dropdown.

## Tips and Notes

- **Enterprise Focus:** Inception is designed for production-grade AI applications with emphasis on reliability and consistency.
- **Pricing:** Refer to the Inception platform for current pricing details and available subscription options.
- **Support:** Enterprise customers have access to dedicated support channels for technical assistance.

Commit message:

docs: update Inception provider links and issue reporting target

apps/kilocode-docs/pages/ai-providers/inception.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Inception
---

# Using Inception With Kilo Code

Inception provides access to cutting-edge AI models with a focus on performance and reliability. Their infrastructure is designed for enterprise-grade applications requiring consistent, high-quality outputs.

**Website:** [https://www.inceptionlabs.ai](https://www.inceptionlabs.ai)

## Getting an API Key

1. **Sign Up/Sign In:** Go to the [Inception website](https://www.inceptionlabs.ai) and access their developer/API dashboard.
2. **Navigate to API Keys:** Access the API Keys section in your account settings.
3. **Create a Key:** Click "Create new API key". Give your key a descriptive name (e.g., "Kilo Code").
4. **Copy the Key:** **Important:** Copy the API key _immediately_. You will not be able to see it again. Store it securely.

## Supported Models

Kilo Code supports Inception's available models. Model selection and capabilities may vary based on your account tier.

Refer to Inception's current website and developer documentation for the most up-to-date list of supported models and capabilities.

## Configuration in Kilo Code

1. **Open Kilo Code Settings:** Click the gear icon ({% codicon name="gear" /%}) in the Kilo Code panel.
2. **Select Provider:** Choose "Inception" from the "API Provider" dropdown.
3. **Enter API Key:** Paste your Inception API key into the "Inception API Key" field.
4. **Select Model:** Choose your desired model from the "Model" dropdown.

## Tips and Notes

- **Enterprise Focus:** Inception is designed for production-grade AI applications with emphasis on reliability and consistency.
- **Pricing:** Refer to the Inception platform for current pricing details and available subscription options.
- **Support:** Enterprise customers have access to dedicated support channels for technical assistance.
- **Docs Feedback:** Report documentation issues at [Kilo-Org/kilocode issues](https://github.com/Kilo-Org/kilocode/issues/new?title=Documentation%20Issue:%20/docs/ai-providers/inception).
