apps/kilocode-docs/pages/code-with-ai/agents/free-and-budget-models.md, before:

---
title: Free and Budget Models
description: Learn how to use Kilo Code effectively while minimizing or eliminating costs through free models, budget-friendly alternatives, and smart usage strategies.
---

# Free and Budget Models

**Why this matters:** AI model costs can add up quickly during development. This guide shows you how to use Kilo Code effectively while minimizing or eliminating costs through free models, budget-friendly alternatives, and smart usage strategies.

## Completely Free Options

### Grok Code Fast 1

This frontier AI model is 100% free in Kilo Code for a limited time. [See the blog post for more details](https://blog.kilo.ai/p/grok-code-fast-get-this-frontier-ai-model-free).

### OpenRouter Free Tier Models

OpenRouter offers several models with generous free tiers. **Note:** You'll need to create a free OpenRouter account to access these models.

**Setup:**

1. Create a free [OpenRouter account](https://openrouter.ai)
2. Get your API key from the dashboard
3. Configure Kilo Code with the OpenRouter provider

**Available free models:**

- **Qwen3 Coder (free)** - Optimized for agentic coding tasks such as function calling, tool use, and long-context reasoning over repositories.
- **Z.AI: GLM 4.5 Air (free)** - Lightweight variant of the GLM-4.5 family, purpose-built for agent-centric applications.
- **DeepSeek: R1 0528 (free)** - Performance on par with OpenAI o1, but open-sourced and with fully open reasoning tokens.
- **MoonshotAI: Kimi K2 (free)** - Optimized for agentic capabilities, including advanced tool use, reasoning, and code synthesis.

## Cost-Effective Premium Models

When you need more capability than free models provide, these options deliver excellent value:

### Ultra-Budget Champions (Under $0.50 per million tokens)

**Mistral Devstral Small**

- **Cost:** ~$0.20 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Code generation, debugging, refactoring
- **Performance:** 85% of premium model capability at 10% of the cost

**Llama 4 Maverick**

- **Cost:** ~$0.30 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Complex reasoning, architecture planning
- **Performance:** Excellent for most development tasks

**DeepSeek v3**

- **Cost:** ~$0.27 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Code analysis, large codebase understanding
- **Performance:** Strong technical reasoning

### Mid-Range Value Models ($0.50-$2.00 per million tokens)

**Qwen3 235B**

- **Cost:** ~$1.20 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Complex projects requiring high accuracy
- **Performance:** Near-premium quality at 40% of the cost

## Smart Usage Strategies

### The 50% Rule

**Principle:** Use budget models for 50% of your tasks, premium models for the other 50%.

**Budget model tasks:**

- Code reviews and analysis
- Documentation writing
- Simple bug fixes
- Boilerplate generation
- Refactoring existing code

**Premium model tasks:**

- Complex architecture decisions
- Debugging difficult issues
- Performance optimization
- New feature design
- Critical production code

### Context Management for Cost Savings

**Minimize context size:**

```typescript
// Instead of mentioning entire files
@src/components/UserProfile.tsx

// Mention specific functions or sections
@src/components/UserProfile.tsx:45-67
```

**Reuse context effectively:**

- Keep key project notes in your repository (e.g., a AGENTS.md or docs folder)
- Reduces need to re-explain project details
- Saves tokens per conversation

**Strategic file mentions:**

- Only include files directly relevant to the task
- Use [`@folder/`](/docs/basic-usage/context-mentions) for broad context, specific files for targeted work

### Model Switching Strategies

**Start cheap, escalate when needed:**

1. **Begin with free models** (Qwen3 Coder, GLM-4.5-Air)
2. **Switch to budget models** if free models struggle
3. **Escalate to premium models** only for complex tasks

**Use API Configuration Profiles:**

- Set up [multiple profiles](/docs/ai-providers) for different cost tiers
- Quick switching between free, budget, and premium models
- Match model capability to task complexity

### Mode-Based Cost Optimization

**Use appropriate modes to limit expensive operations:**

- **[Ask Mode](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes#ask-mode):** Information gathering without code changes
- **[Architect Mode](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes#architect-mode):** Planning without expensive file operations
- **[Debug Mode](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes#debug-mode):** Focused troubleshooting

**Custom modes for budget control:**

- Create modes that restrict expensive tools
- Limit file access to specific directories
- Control which operations are auto-approved

## Real-World Performance Comparisons

### Code Generation Tasks

**Simple function creation:**

- **Mistral Devstral Small:** 95% success rate
- **GPT-4:** 98% success rate
- **Cost difference:** Free vs $0.20 vs $30 per million tokens

**Complex refactoring:**

- **Budget models:** 70-80% success rate
- **Premium models:** 90-95% success rate
- **Recommendation:** Start with budget, escalate if needed

### Debugging Performance

**Simple bugs:**

- **Free models:** Usually sufficient
- **Budget models:** Excellent performance
- **Premium models:** Overkill for most cases

**Complex system issues:**

- **Free models:** 40-60% success rate
- **Budget models:** 60-80% success rate
- **Premium models:** 85-95% success rate

## Hybrid Approach Recommendations

### Daily Development Workflow

**Morning planning session:**

- Use **Architect mode** with **DeepSeek R1**
- Plan features and architecture
- Create task breakdowns

**Implementation phase:**

- Use **Code mode** with **budget models**
- Generate and modify code
- Handle routine development tasks

**Complex problem solving:**

- Switch to **premium models** when stuck
- Use for critical debugging
- Architecture decisions affecting multiple systems

### Project Phase Strategy

**Early development:**

- Free and budget models for prototyping
- Rapid iteration without cost concerns
- Establish patterns and structure

**Production preparation:**

- Premium models for critical code review
- Performance optimization
- Security considerations

## Cost Monitoring and Control

### Track Your Usage

**Monitor credit consumption:**

- Check cost estimates in chat history
- Review monthly usage patterns
- Identify high-cost operations

**Set spending limits:**

- Use provider billing alerts
- Configure [provider rate limits](/docs/ai-providers) to control usage
- Set daily/monthly budgets

### Cost-Saving Tips

**Reduce system prompt size:**

- [Disable MCP](/docs/automate/mcp/using-in-kilo-code) if not using external tools
- Use focused custom modes
- Minimize unnecessary context

**Optimize conversation length:**

- Use [Checkpoints](/docs/features/checkpoints) to reset context
- Start fresh conversations for unrelated tasks
- Archive completed work

**Batch similar tasks:**

- Group related code changes
- Handle multiple files in single requests
- Reduce conversation overhead

## Getting Started with Budget Models

### Quick Setup Guide

1. **Create OpenRouter account** for free models
2. **Configure multiple providers** in Kilo Code
3. **Set up API Configuration Profiles** for easy switching
4. **Escalate to budget models** when needed
5. **Reserve premium models** for complex work

### Recommended Provider Mix

**Free tier foundation:**

- [OpenRouter](/docs/providers/openrouter) - Free models
- [Groq](/docs/providers/groq) - Fast inference for supported models
- [Z.ai](https://z.ai/model-api) - Provides a free model GLM-4.5-Flash

**Budget tier options:**

- [DeepSeek](/docs/providers/deepseek) - Excellent value models
- [Mistral](/docs/providers/mistral) - Specialized coding models

**Premium tier backup:**

- [Anthropic](/docs/providers/anthropic) - Claude for complex reasoning
- [OpenAI](/docs/providers/openai) - GPT-4 for critical tasks

## Measuring Success

**Track these metrics:**

- Monthly AI costs vs. development productivity
- Task completion rates by model tier
- Time saved vs. money spent
- Code quality improvements

**Success indicators:**

- 70%+ of tasks completed with free/budget models
- Monthly costs under your target budget
- Maintained or improved code quality
- Faster development cycles

By combining free models, strategic budget model usage, and smart optimization techniques, you can harness the full power of AI-assisted development while keeping costs minimal. Start with free options and gradually incorporate budget models as your needs and comfort with costs grow.

Commit message:

Update the information architecture to have more condensed items (#5657)
* Update free models in docs

* Condense code with ai

* Refactor features section

apps/kilocode-docs/pages/code-with-ai/agents/free-and-budget-models.md, after:

---
title: Free and Budget Models
description: Learn how to use Kilo Code effectively while minimizing or eliminating costs through free models, budget-friendly alternatives, and smart usage strategies.
---

# Free and Budget Models

**Why this matters:** AI model costs can add up quickly during development. This guide shows you how to use Kilo Code effectively while minimizing or eliminating costs through free models, budget-friendly alternatives, and smart usage strategies.

## Completely Free Options

### Kilo Gateway Free Models

From time to time, Kilo works with AI inference providers to offer free models. These are available through the Kilo Gateway. Currently, we are offering these free models:

- **MiniMax M2.1 (free)** - A capable model from MiniMax with strong general-purpose performance.
- **Z.AI: GLM 4.7 (free)** - Latest variant of the GLM family, purpose-built for agent-centric applications.
- **MoonshotAI: Kimi K2.5 (free)** - Optimized for agentic capabilities, including advanced tool use, reasoning, and code synthesis.
- **Giga Potato (free)** - A stealth release model that is free in its evaluation period.
- **Arcee AI: Trinity Large Preview (free)** - A preview model from Arcee AI with strong capabilities.

### OpenRouter Free Tier Models

OpenRouter offers several models with generous free tiers. **Note:** You'll need to create a free OpenRouter account to access these models.

**Setup:**

1. Create a free [OpenRouter account](https://openrouter.ai)
2. Get your API key from the dashboard
3. Configure Kilo Code with the OpenRouter provider

**Available free models:**

- **Qwen3 Coder (free)** - Optimized for agentic coding tasks such as function calling, tool use, and long-context reasoning over repositories.
- **Z.AI: GLM 4.5 Air (free)** - Lightweight variant of the GLM-4.5 family, purpose-built for agent-centric applications.
- **DeepSeek: R1 0528 (free)** - Performance on par with OpenAI o1, but open-sourced and with fully open reasoning tokens.
- **MoonshotAI: Kimi K2 (free)** - Optimized for agentic capabilities, including advanced tool use, reasoning, and code synthesis.

## Cost-Effective Premium Models

When you need more capability than free models provide, these options deliver excellent value:

### Ultra-Budget Champions (Under $0.50 per million tokens)

**Mistral Devstral Small**

- **Cost:** ~$0.20 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Code generation, debugging, refactoring
- **Performance:** 85% of premium model capability at 10% of the cost

**Llama 4 Maverick**

- **Cost:** ~$0.30 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Complex reasoning, architecture planning
- **Performance:** Excellent for most development tasks

**DeepSeek v3**

- **Cost:** ~$0.27 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Code analysis, large codebase understanding
- **Performance:** Strong technical reasoning

### Mid-Range Value Models ($0.50-$2.00 per million tokens)

**Qwen3 235B**

- **Cost:** ~$1.20 per million input tokens
- **Best for:** Complex projects requiring high accuracy
- **Performance:** Near-premium quality at 40% of the cost

## Smart Usage Strategies

### The 50% Rule

**Principle:** Use budget models for 50% of your tasks, premium models for the other 50%.

**Budget model tasks:**

- Code reviews and analysis
- Documentation writing
- Simple bug fixes
- Boilerplate generation
- Refactoring existing code

**Premium model tasks:**

- Complex architecture decisions
- Debugging difficult issues
- Performance optimization
- New feature design
- Critical production code

### Context Management for Cost Savings

**Minimize context size:**

```typescript
// Instead of mentioning entire files
@src/components/UserProfile.tsx

// Mention specific functions or sections
@src/components/UserProfile.tsx:45-67
```

**Reuse context effectively:**

- Keep key project notes in your repository (e.g., a AGENTS.md or docs folder)
- Reduces need to re-explain project details
- Saves tokens per conversation

**Strategic file mentions:**

- Only include files directly relevant to the task
- Use [`@folder/`](/docs/basic-usage/context-mentions) for broad context, specific files for targeted work

### Model Switching Strategies

**Start cheap, escalate when needed:**

1. **Begin with free models** (Qwen3 Coder, GLM-4.5-Air)
2. **Switch to budget models** if free models struggle
3. **Escalate to premium models** only for complex tasks

**Use API Configuration Profiles:**

- Set up [multiple profiles](/docs/ai-providers) for different cost tiers
- Quick switching between free, budget, and premium models
- Match model capability to task complexity

### Mode-Based Cost Optimization

**Use appropriate modes to limit expensive operations:**

- **[Ask Mode](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes#ask-mode):** Information gathering without code changes
- **[Architect Mode](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes#architect-mode):** Planning without expensive file operations
- **[Debug Mode](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes#debug-mode):** Focused troubleshooting

**Custom modes for budget control:**

- Create modes that restrict expensive tools
- Limit file access to specific directories
- Control which operations are auto-approved

## Real-World Performance Comparisons

### Code Generation Tasks

**Simple function creation:**

- **Mistral Devstral Small:** 95% success rate
- **GPT-4:** 98% success rate
- **Cost difference:** Free vs $0.20 vs $30 per million tokens

**Complex refactoring:**

- **Budget models:** 70-80% success rate
- **Premium models:** 90-95% success rate
- **Recommendation:** Start with budget, escalate if needed

### Debugging Performance

**Simple bugs:**

- **Free models:** Usually sufficient
- **Budget models:** Excellent performance
- **Premium models:** Overkill for most cases

**Complex system issues:**

- **Free models:** 40-60% success rate
- **Budget models:** 60-80% success rate
- **Premium models:** 85-95% success rate

## Hybrid Approach Recommendations

### Daily Development Workflow

**Morning planning session:**

- Use **Architect mode** with **DeepSeek R1**
- Plan features and architecture
- Create task breakdowns

**Implementation phase:**

- Use **Code mode** with **budget models**
- Generate and modify code
- Handle routine development tasks

**Complex problem solving:**

- Switch to **premium models** when stuck
- Use for critical debugging
- Architecture decisions affecting multiple systems

### Project Phase Strategy

**Early development:**

- Free and budget models for prototyping
- Rapid iteration without cost concerns
- Establish patterns and structure

**Production preparation:**

- Premium models for critical code review
- Performance optimization
- Security considerations

## Cost Monitoring and Control

### Track Your Usage

**Monitor credit consumption:**

- Check cost estimates in chat history
- Review monthly usage patterns
- Identify high-cost operations

**Set spending limits:**

- Use provider billing alerts
- Configure [provider rate limits](/docs/ai-providers) to control usage
- Set daily/monthly budgets

### Cost-Saving Tips

**Reduce system prompt size:**

- [Disable MCP](/docs/automate/mcp/using-in-kilo-code) if not using external tools
- Use focused custom modes
- Minimize unnecessary context

**Optimize conversation length:**

- Use [Checkpoints](/docs/features/checkpoints) to reset context
- Start fresh conversations for unrelated tasks
- Archive completed work

**Batch similar tasks:**

- Group related code changes
- Handle multiple files in single requests
- Reduce conversation overhead

## Getting Started with Budget Models

### Quick Setup Guide

1. **Create OpenRouter account** for free models
2. **Configure multiple providers** in Kilo Code
3. **Set up API Configuration Profiles** for easy switching
4. **Escalate to budget models** when needed
5. **Reserve premium models** for complex work

### Recommended Provider Mix

**Free tier foundation:**

- [OpenRouter](/docs/providers/openrouter) - Free models
- [Groq](/docs/providers/groq) - Fast inference for supported models
- [Z.ai](https://z.ai/model-api) - Provides a free model GLM-4.5-Flash

**Budget tier options:**

- [DeepSeek](/docs/providers/deepseek) - Excellent value models
- [Mistral](/docs/providers/mistral) - Specialized coding models

**Premium tier backup:**

- [Anthropic](/docs/providers/anthropic) - Claude for complex reasoning
- [OpenAI](/docs/providers/openai) - GPT-4 for critical tasks

## Measuring Success

**Track these metrics:**

- Monthly AI costs vs. development productivity
- Task completion rates by model tier
- Time saved vs. money spent
- Code quality improvements

**Success indicators:**

- 70%+ of tasks completed with free/budget models
- Monthly costs under your target budget
- Maintained or improved code quality
- Faster development cycles

By combining free models, strategic budget model usage, and smart optimization techniques, you can harness the full power of AI-assisted development while keeping costs minimal. Start with free options and gradually incorporate budget models as your needs and comfort with costs grow.
