apps/kilocode-docs/pages/code-with-ai/index.md, before:

---
title: "Code with AI"
description: "Learn how to code with AI using Kilo Code across different platforms and interfaces"
---

# {% $markdoc.frontmatter.title %}

{% callout type="generic" %}
Kilo Code is your AI pair programmer that works in your IDE, terminal, or browser. Generate code, refactor, debug, and ship faster with AI that understands your codebase and context.
{% /callout %}

## Getting Started

New to Kilo Code? Start here to understand the core concepts:

- [**Install Kilo Code**](/docs/getting-started/installing) — Get started in VS Code, JetBrains, CLI, or mobile
- [**Connect an AI Provider**](/docs/getting-started/ai-providers) — Set up your preferred model
- [**Quick Start Guide**](/docs/getting-started/quickstart) — Run your first task in minutes

## Platforms

Use Kilo Code wherever you work:

- [**VS Code**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/vscode) — The most popular IDE integration
- [**JetBrains**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/jetbrains) — IntelliJ, PyCharm, WebStorm, and more
- [**CLI**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/cli) — Terminal-based AI coding for scripts and automation
- [**Web & Mobile**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/web-app) — Access Kilo from your browser
- [**Mobile Apps**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/mobile) — iOS and Android support
- [**Slack**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/slack) — Chat with Kilo in your workspace

## Working with Agents

Kilo uses specialized agents to help with different tasks:

- [**Chat Interface**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/chat-interface) — Conversation-based coding
- [**Using Modes**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes) — Switch between Code, Architect, Debug, and Ask modes
- [**Model Selection**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/model-selection) — Choose the right AI model for each task
- [**Context Mentions**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/context-mentions) — Reference files, functions, and symbols
- [**Orchestrator Mode**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/orchestrator-mode) — Complex multi-step tasks

## Features

Core capabilities to boost your productivity:

- [**Autocomplete**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/autocomplete) — Inline code suggestions as you type
- [**Fast Edits**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/fast-edits) — Quick file modifications
- [**Code Actions**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/code-actions) — AI-powered refactoring and fixes
- [**Task & Todo Lists**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/task-todo-list) — Break down complex tasks
- [**Checkpoints**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/checkpoints) — Save and restore working states
- [**Browser Use**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/browser-use) — Automate web interactions
- [**Enhance Prompt**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/enhance-prompt) — Improve your prompts automatically
- [**Git Commit Generation**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/git-commit-generation) — AI-powered commit messages

## Context & Memory

Help Kilo understand your codebase:

- [**Codebase Indexing**](/docs/code-with-ai/context/codebase-indexing) — Build an index of your code for better context
- [**Memory Bank**](/docs/code-with-ai/context/memory-bank) — Store project context and decisions
- [**Large Projects**](/docs/code-with-ai/context/large-projects) — Best practices for monorepos and large codebases

## Customization

Tailor Kilo to your workflow:

- [**Custom Modes**](/docs/code-with-ai/customization/custom-modes) — Create specialized modes for your team
- [**Custom Instructions**](/docs/code-with-ai/customization/custom-instructions) — Add project-specific guidelines
- [**Custom Rules**](/docs/code-with-ai/customization/custom-rules) — Define when and how Kilo should act
- [**Prompt Engineering**](/docs/code-with-ai/customization/prompt-engineering) — Write effective prompts
- [**Skills**](/docs/code-with-ai/customization/skills) — Extend Kilo's capabilities
- [**Workflows**](/docs/code-with-ai/customization/workflows) — Automate repetitive tasks
- [**agents.md**](/docs/code-with-ai/customization/agents-md) — Configure agent behavior

## App Building

Build complete applications with Kilo:

- [**App Builder**](/docs/code-with-ai/app-builder.md) — Create full-stack applications with AI
- [**Cloud Agent**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/cloud-agent) — Deploy agents to the cloud

## Next Steps

- Explore the [**Automate**](/docs/automate) section for advanced workflows
- Learn about [**Collaborating**](/docs/collaborate) with your team
- Set up [**Deploy & Secure**](/docs/deploy-secure) deployments

Commit message:

Add customize section to break up code with ai

apps/kilocode-docs/pages/code-with-ai/index.md, after:

---
title: "Code with AI"
description: "Learn how to code with AI using Kilo Code across different platforms and interfaces"
---

# {% $markdoc.frontmatter.title %}

{% callout type="generic" %}
Kilo Code is your AI pair programmer that works in your IDE, terminal, or browser. Generate code, refactor, debug, and ship faster with AI that understands your codebase and context.
{% /callout %}

## Getting Started

New to Kilo Code? Start here to understand the core concepts:

- [**Install Kilo Code**](/docs/getting-started/installing) — Get started in VS Code, JetBrains, CLI, or mobile
- [**Connect an AI Provider**](/docs/getting-started/ai-providers) — Set up your preferred model
- [**Quick Start Guide**](/docs/getting-started/quickstart) — Run your first task in minutes

## Platforms

Use Kilo Code wherever you work:

- [**VS Code**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/vscode) — The most popular IDE integration
- [**JetBrains**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/jetbrains) — IntelliJ, PyCharm, WebStorm, and more
- [**CLI**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/cli) — Terminal-based AI coding for scripts and automation
- [**Cloud Agent**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/cloud-agent) — Run Kilo in the cloud
- [**Mobile Apps**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/mobile) — iOS and Android support
- [**Slack**](/docs/code-with-ai/platforms/slack) — Chat with Kilo in your workspace
- [**App Builder**](/docs/code-with-ai/app-builder) — Create full-stack applications with AI

## Working with Agents

Kilo uses specialized agents to help with different tasks:

- [**Chat Interface**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/chat-interface) — Conversation-based coding
- [**Using Modes**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/using-modes) — Switch between Code, Architect, Debug, and Ask modes
- [**Model Selection**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/model-selection) — Choose the right AI model for each task
- [**Context Mentions**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/context-mentions) — Reference files, functions, and symbols
- [**Orchestrator Mode**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/orchestrator-mode) — Complex multi-step tasks
- [**Free & Budget Models**](/docs/code-with-ai/agents/free-and-budget-models) — Cost-effective AI options

## Features

Core capabilities to boost your productivity:

- [**Autocomplete**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/autocomplete) — Inline code suggestions as you type
- [**Fast Edits**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/fast-edits) — Quick file modifications
- [**Code Actions**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/code-actions) — AI-powered refactoring and fixes
- [**Task & Todo Lists**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/task-todo-list) — Break down complex tasks
- [**Checkpoints**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/checkpoints) — Save and restore working states
- [**Browser Use**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/browser-use) — Automate web interactions
- [**Enhance Prompt**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/enhance-prompt) — Improve your prompts automatically
- [**Git Commit Generation**](/docs/code-with-ai/features/git-commit-generation) — AI-powered commit messages

## Next Steps

- Explore [**Customize**](/docs/customize) to tailor Kilo to your workflow
- Learn about [**Collaborating**](/docs/collaborate) with your team
- Set up [**Automate**](/docs/automate) for CI/CD integration
- Configure [**Deploy & Secure**](/docs/deploy-secure) deployments
