apps/kilocode-docs/pages/customize/context/codebase-indexing.md, before:

---
title: "Codebase Indexing"
description: "Index your codebase for improved AI understanding"
---

# Codebase Indexing

Codebase Indexing enables semantic code search across your entire project using AI embeddings. Instead of searching for exact text matches, it understands the _meaning_ of your queries, helping Kilo Code find relevant code even when you don't know specific function names or file locations.

{% image src="/docs/img/codebase-indexing/codebase-indexing.png" alt="Codebase Indexing Settings" width="800" caption="Codebase Indexing Settings" /%}

## What It Does

When enabled, the indexing system:

1. **Parses your code** using Tree-sitter to identify semantic blocks (functions, classes, methods)
2. **Creates embeddings** of each code block using AI models
3. **Stores vectors** in a Qdrant database for fast similarity search
4. **Provides the [`codebase_search`](/docs/automate/tools/codebase-search) tool** to Kilo Code for intelligent code discovery

This enables natural language queries like "user authentication logic" or "database connection handling" to find relevant code across your entire project.

## Key Benefits

- **Semantic Search**: Find code by meaning, not just keywords
- **Enhanced AI Understanding**: Kilo Code can better comprehend and work with your codebase
- **Cross-Project Discovery**: Search across all files, not just what's open
- **Pattern Recognition**: Locate similar implementations and code patterns

## Setup Requirements

### Embedding Provider

Choose one of these options for generating embeddings:

**OpenAI (Recommended)**

- Requires OpenAI API key
- Supports all OpenAI embedding models
- Default: `text-embedding-3-small`
- Processes up to 100,000 tokens per batch

**Gemini**

- Requires Google AI API key
- Supports Gemini embedding models including `gemini-embedding-001`
- Cost-effective alternative to OpenAI
- High-quality embeddings for code understanding

**Ollama (Local)**

- Requires local Ollama installation
- No API costs or internet dependency
- Supports any Ollama-compatible embedding model
- Requires Ollama base URL configuration

### Vector Database

**Qdrant** is required for storing and searching embeddings:

- **Local**: `http://localhost:6333` (recommended for testing)
- **Cloud**: Qdrant Cloud or self-hosted instance
- **Authentication**: Optional API key for secured deployments

## Setting Up Qdrant

### Quick Local Setup

**Using Docker:**

```bash
docker run -p 6333:6333 qdrant/qdrant
```

**Using Docker Compose:**

```yaml
version: "3.8"
services:
    qdrant:
        image: qdrant/qdrant
        ports:
            - "6333:6333"
        volumes:
            - qdrant_storage:/qdrant/storage
volumes:
    qdrant_storage:
```

### Production Deployment

For team or production use:

- [Qdrant Cloud](https://cloud.qdrant.io/) - Managed service
- Self-hosted on AWS, GCP, or Azure
- Local server with network access for team sharing

## Configuration

### Open Codebase Indexing Settings

1. In the chat header, click the database icon (indexing status)
2. The Codebase Indexing settings panel opens
3. If you don't see the icon, open Kilo Code settings (<Codicon name="gear" />) and search for **Codebase Indexing**

### Configure Settings

1. Enable **"Enable Codebase Indexing"** using the toggle switch
2. Configure your embedding provider:
    - **OpenAI**: Enter API key and select model
    - **Gemini**: Enter Google AI API key and select embedding model
    - **Ollama**: Enter base URL and select model
3. Set Qdrant URL and optional API key
4. Configure **Max Search Results** (default: 20, range: 1-100)
5. Click **Save** to start initial indexing

### Enable/Disable Toggle

The codebase indexing feature includes a convenient toggle switch that allows you to:

- **Enable**: Start indexing your codebase and make the search tool available
- **Disable**: Stop indexing, pause file watching, and disable the search functionality
- **Preserve Settings**: Your configuration remains saved when toggling off

This toggle is useful for temporarily disabling indexing during intensive development work or when working with sensitive codebases.

## Understanding Index Status

The interface shows real-time status with color indicators:

- **Standby** (Gray): Not running, awaiting configuration
- **Indexing** (Yellow): Currently processing files
- **Indexed** (Green): Up-to-date and ready for searches
- **Error** (Red): Failed state requiring attention

## How Files Are Processed

### Smart Code Parsing

- **Tree-sitter Integration**: Uses AST parsing to identify semantic code blocks
- **Language Support**: All languages supported by Tree-sitter
- **Markdown Support**: Full support for markdown files and documentation
- **Fallback**: Line-based chunking for unsupported file types
- **Block Sizing**:
    - Minimum: 100 characters
    - Maximum: 1,000 characters
    - Splits large functions intelligently

### Automatic File Filtering

The indexer automatically excludes:

- Binary files and images
- Large files (&gt;1MB)
- Git repositories (`.git` folders)
- Dependencies (`node_modules`, `vendor`, etc.)
- Files matching `.gitignore` and [`.kilocodeignore`](/docs/customize/context/kilocodeignore) patterns

### Incremental Updates

- **File Watching**: Monitors workspace for changes
- **Smart Updates**: Only reprocesses modified files
- **Hash-based Caching**: Avoids reprocessing unchanged content
- **Branch Switching**: Automatically handles Git branch changes

## Best Practices

### Model Selection

**For OpenAI:**

- **`text-embedding-3-small`**: Best balance of performance and cost
- **`text-embedding-3-large`**: Higher accuracy, 5x more expensive
- **`text-embedding-ada-002`**: Legacy model, lower cost

**For Ollama:**

- **`mxbai-embed-large`**: The largest and highest-quality embedding model.
- **`nomic-embed-text`**: Best balance of performance and embedding quality.
- **`all-minilm`**: Compact model with lower quality but faster performance.

### Security Considerations

- **API Keys**: Stored securely in VS Code's encrypted storage
- **Code Privacy**: Only small code snippets sent for embedding (not full files)
- **Local Processing**: All parsing happens locally
- **Qdrant Security**: Use authentication for production deployments

## Current Limitations

- **File Size**: 1MB maximum per file
- **Single Workspace**: One workspace at a time
- **Dependencies**: Requires external services (embedding provider + Qdrant)
- **Language Coverage**: Limited to Tree-sitter supported languages for optimal parsing

## Using the Search Feature

Once indexed, Kilo Code can use the [`codebase_search`](/docs/automate/tools/codebase-search) tool to find relevant code:

**Example Queries:**

- "How is user authentication handled?"
- "Database connection setup"
- "Error handling patterns"
- "API endpoint definitions"

The tool provides Kilo Code with:

- Relevant code snippets (up to your configured max results limit)
- File paths and line numbers
- Similarity scores
- Contextual information

### Search Results Configuration

You can control the number of search results returned by adjusting the **Max Search Results** setting:

- **Default**: 20 results
- **Range**: 1-100 results
- **Performance**: Lower values improve response speed
- **Comprehensiveness**: Higher values provide more context but may slow responses

## Privacy & Security

- **Code stays local**: Only small code snippets sent for embedding
- **Embeddings are numeric**: Not human-readable representations
- **Secure storage**: API keys encrypted in VS Code storage
- **Local option**: Use Ollama for completely local processing
- **Access control**: Respects existing file permissions

## Future Enhancements

Planned improvements:

- Additional embedding providers
- Multi-workspace indexing
- Enhanced filtering and configuration options
- Team sharing capabilities
- Integration with VS Code's native search

Commit message:

docs: add code indexing troubleshooting note (#5665)
* docs: add code indexing troubleshooting note

* docs: clarify ollama batch setting for indexing troubleshooting

apps/kilocode-docs/pages/customize/context/codebase-indexing.md, after:

---
title: "Codebase Indexing"
description: "Index your codebase for improved AI understanding"
---

# Codebase Indexing

Codebase Indexing enables semantic code search across your entire project using AI embeddings. Instead of searching for exact text matches, it understands the _meaning_ of your queries, helping Kilo Code find relevant code even when you don't know specific function names or file locations.

{% image src="/docs/img/codebase-indexing/codebase-indexing.png" alt="Codebase Indexing Settings" width="800" caption="Codebase Indexing Settings" /%}

## What It Does

When enabled, the indexing system:

1. **Parses your code** using Tree-sitter to identify semantic blocks (functions, classes, methods)
2. **Creates embeddings** of each code block using AI models
3. **Stores vectors** in a Qdrant database for fast similarity search
4. **Provides the [`codebase_search`](/docs/automate/tools/codebase-search) tool** to Kilo Code for intelligent code discovery

This enables natural language queries like "user authentication logic" or "database connection handling" to find relevant code across your entire project.

## Key Benefits

- **Semantic Search**: Find code by meaning, not just keywords
- **Enhanced AI Understanding**: Kilo Code can better comprehend and work with your codebase
- **Cross-Project Discovery**: Search across all files, not just what's open
- **Pattern Recognition**: Locate similar implementations and code patterns

## Setup Requirements

### Embedding Provider

Choose one of these options for generating embeddings:

**OpenAI (Recommended)**

- Requires OpenAI API key
- Supports all OpenAI embedding models
- Default: `text-embedding-3-small`
- Processes up to 100,000 tokens per batch

**Gemini**

- Requires Google AI API key
- Supports Gemini embedding models including `gemini-embedding-001`
- Cost-effective alternative to OpenAI
- High-quality embeddings for code understanding

**Ollama (Local)**

- Requires local Ollama installation
- No API costs or internet dependency
- Supports any Ollama-compatible embedding model
- Requires Ollama base URL configuration

### Vector Database

**Qdrant** is required for storing and searching embeddings:

- **Local**: `http://localhost:6333` (recommended for testing)
- **Cloud**: Qdrant Cloud or self-hosted instance
- **Authentication**: Optional API key for secured deployments

## Setting Up Qdrant

### Quick Local Setup

**Using Docker:**

```bash
docker run -p 6333:6333 qdrant/qdrant
```

**Using Docker Compose:**

```yaml
version: "3.8"
services:
    qdrant:
        image: qdrant/qdrant
        ports:
            - "6333:6333"
        volumes:
            - qdrant_storage:/qdrant/storage
volumes:
    qdrant_storage:
```

### Production Deployment

For team or production use:

- [Qdrant Cloud](https://cloud.qdrant.io/) - Managed service
- Self-hosted on AWS, GCP, or Azure
- Local server with network access for team sharing

## Configuration

### Open Codebase Indexing Settings

1. In the chat header, click the database icon (indexing status)
2. The Codebase Indexing settings panel opens
3. If you don't see the icon, open Kilo Code settings (<Codicon name="gear" />) and search for **Codebase Indexing**

### Configure Settings

1. Enable **"Enable Codebase Indexing"** using the toggle switch
2. Configure your embedding provider:
    - **OpenAI**: Enter API key and select model
    - **Gemini**: Enter Google AI API key and select embedding model
    - **Ollama**: Enter base URL and select model
3. Set Qdrant URL and optional API key
4. Configure **Max Search Results** (default: 20, range: 1-100)
5. Click **Save** to start initial indexing

### Enable/Disable Toggle

The codebase indexing feature includes a convenient toggle switch that allows you to:

- **Enable**: Start indexing your codebase and make the search tool available
- **Disable**: Stop indexing, pause file watching, and disable the search functionality
- **Preserve Settings**: Your configuration remains saved when toggling off

This toggle is useful for temporarily disabling indexing during intensive development work or when working with sensitive codebases.

## Understanding Index Status

The interface shows real-time status with color indicators:

- **Standby** (Gray): Not running, awaiting configuration
- **Indexing** (Yellow): Currently processing files
- **Indexed** (Green): Up-to-date and ready for searches
- **Error** (Red): Failed state requiring attention

## How Files Are Processed

### Smart Code Parsing

- **Tree-sitter Integration**: Uses AST parsing to identify semantic code blocks
- **Language Support**: All languages supported by Tree-sitter
- **Markdown Support**: Full support for markdown files and documentation
- **Fallback**: Line-based chunking for unsupported file types
- **Block Sizing**:
    - Minimum: 100 characters
    - Maximum: 1,000 characters
    - Splits large functions intelligently

### Automatic File Filtering

The indexer automatically excludes:

- Binary files and images
- Large files (&gt;1MB)
- Git repositories (`.git` folders)
- Dependencies (`node_modules`, `vendor`, etc.)
- Files matching `.gitignore` and [`.kilocodeignore`](/docs/customize/context/kilocodeignore) patterns

### Incremental Updates

- **File Watching**: Monitors workspace for changes
- **Smart Updates**: Only reprocesses modified files
- **Hash-based Caching**: Avoids reprocessing unchanged content
- **Branch Switching**: Automatically handles Git branch changes

## Best Practices

### Model Selection

**For OpenAI:**

- **`text-embedding-3-small`**: Best balance of performance and cost
- **`text-embedding-3-large`**: Higher accuracy, 5x more expensive
- **`text-embedding-ada-002`**: Legacy model, lower cost

**For Ollama:**

- **`mxbai-embed-large`**: The largest and highest-quality embedding model.
- **`nomic-embed-text`**: Best balance of performance and embedding quality.
- **`all-minilm`**: Compact model with lower quality but faster performance.

### Security Considerations

- **API Keys**: Stored securely in VS Code's encrypted storage
- **Code Privacy**: Only small code snippets sent for embedding (not full files)
- **Local Processing**: All parsing happens locally
- **Qdrant Security**: Use authentication for production deployments

## Current Limitations

- **File Size**: 1MB maximum per file
- **Single Workspace**: One workspace at a time
- **Dependencies**: Requires external services (embedding provider + Qdrant)
- **Language Coverage**: Limited to Tree-sitter supported languages for optimal parsing

## Troubleshooting

### Embeddings fail or indexing stalls (llama.cpp / Ollama)

If your local embedding server is based on llama.cpp (including Ollama), indexing can fail with errors about `n_ubatch` or `GGML_ASSERT`. Ensure both batch size (`-b`) and micro-batch size (`-ub`) are set to the same value for embedding models, then restart the server. For Ollama, configure `num_batch` in your Modelfile or request options to match the same effective value.

## Using the Search Feature

Once indexed, Kilo Code can use the [`codebase_search`](/docs/automate/tools/codebase-search) tool to find relevant code:

**Example Queries:**

- "How is user authentication handled?"
- "Database connection setup"
- "Error handling patterns"
- "API endpoint definitions"

The tool provides Kilo Code with:

- Relevant code snippets (up to your configured max results limit)
- File paths and line numbers
- Similarity scores
- Contextual information

### Search Results Configuration

You can control the number of search results returned by adjusting the **Max Search Results** setting:

- **Default**: 20 results
- **Range**: 1-100 results
- **Performance**: Lower values improve response speed
- **Comprehensiveness**: Higher values provide more context but may slow responses

## Privacy & Security

- **Code stays local**: Only small code snippets sent for embedding
- **Embeddings are numeric**: Not human-readable representations
- **Secure storage**: API keys encrypted in VS Code storage
- **Local option**: Use Ollama for completely local processing
- **Access control**: Respects existing file permissions

## Future Enhancements

Planned improvements:

- Additional embedding providers
- Multi-workspace indexing
- Enhanced filtering and configuration options
- Team sharing capabilities
- Integration with VS Code's native search
