apps/kilocode-docs/docs/getting-started/setting-up.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Getting Set up
---

import { DISCORD_URL } from "@site/src/constants.ts"
import useDocusaurusContext from "@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext"

# Setting up Kilo Code

When you sign up for Kilo Code, you can start immediately with free models, or [purchase Kilo credits](../basic-usage/adding-credits) and receive bonus credits.

To claim your bonus credits:

1. **Sign up:** Complete the registration process
2. **First top-up:** [Add credits to your account](https://app.kilo.ai/profile) and get $20 bonus credits, or sign up for [Kilo Pass](https://kilo.ai/features/kilo-pass).
3. **Start Coding:** Enjoy your $20 in free credits

## Registration process

Kilo Code provides a simple registration process that gives you access to the latest frontier coding models with your Kilo Code login.

1. Click on "Try Kilo Code for Free" in the extension
1. Sign in with your Google account to kilo.ai
1. kilo.ai will prompt you to open Visual Studio Code
    - When using an IDE in a web browser, you will be asked to copy the API key manually instead
1. Once you allow it to Open VS Code, you must also allow VS Code to open the authorization URL

<img src="/docs/img/setting-up/signupflow.gif" alt="Sign up and registration flow with Kilo Code" />

That's it - you're all set! Now you can start with [your first task](/getting-started/your-first-task)

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions about pricing or tokens, please reach out to our [support team](mailto:hi@kilo.ai) or ask in our <a href={DISCORD_URL} target='_blank'>Discord community</a>.
:::

Commit message:

Add ChatGPT docs, add to getting started along with BYOK

apps/kilocode-docs/docs/getting-started/setting-up.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Getting Set up
---

import { DISCORD_URL } from "@site/src/constants.ts"
import useDocusaurusContext from "@docusaurus/useDocusaurusContext"

# Setting up Kilo Code

When you sign up for Kilo Code, you can start immediately with free models, or [purchase Kilo credits](../basic-usage/adding-credits) and receive bonus credits.

To claim your bonus credits:

1. **Sign up:** Complete the registration process
2. **First top-up:** [Add credits to your account](https://app.kilo.ai/profile) and get $20 bonus credits, or sign up for [Kilo Pass](https://kilo.ai/features/kilo-pass).
3. **Start Coding:** Enjoy your $20 in free credits

## Registration process

Kilo Code provides a simple registration process that gives you access to the latest frontier coding models with your Kilo Code login.

1. Click on "Try Kilo Code for Free" in the extension
1. Sign in with your Google account to kilo.ai
1. kilo.ai will prompt you to open Visual Studio Code
    - When using an IDE in a web browser, you will be asked to copy the API key manually instead
1. Once you allow it to Open VS Code, you must also allow VS Code to open the authorization URL

<img src="/docs/img/setting-up/signupflow.gif" alt="Sign up and registration flow with Kilo Code" />

That's it - you're all set! Now you can start with [your first task](/getting-started/your-first-task)

## Already have a subscription to another AI provider?

If you subscribe to ChatGPT, use the [OpenAI ChatGPT provider](../providers/openai-chatgpt-plus-pro) to utilize your subscription with Kilo Code.

You can also [bring your own key](../basic-usage/byok) to use your account or subscription for other providers, including: Anthropic, OpenAI, Mistral, Z.AI, and Minimax. 
:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions about pricing or tokens, please reach out to our [support team](mailto:hi@kilo.ai) or ask in our <a href={DISCORD_URL} target='_blank'>Discord community</a>.
:::
