apps/kilocode-docs/docs/providers/bedrock.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: AWS Bedrock
---

# Using AWS Bedrock With Kilo Code

Kilo Code supports accessing models through Amazon Bedrock, a fully managed service that makes a selection of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies available via a single API.

**Website:** [https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/)

## Prerequisites

- **AWS Account:** You need an active AWS account.
- **Bedrock Access:** You must request and be granted access to Amazon Bedrock. See the [AWS Bedrock documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/getting-started.html) for details on requesting access.
- **Model Access:** Within Bedrock, you need to request access to the specific models you want to use (e.g., Anthropic Claude).
- **Install AWS CLI:** Use AWS CLI to configure your account for authentication
    ```bash
     aws configure
    ```

## Getting Credentials

You have two main options for configuring AWS credentials:

1.  **AWS Access Keys (Recommended for Development):**
    - Create an IAM user with the necessary permissions (at least `bedrock:InvokeModel`).
    - Generate an access key ID and secret access key for that user.
    - _(Optional)_ Create a session token if required by your IAM configuration.
2.  **AWS Profile:**
    - Configure an AWS profile using the AWS CLI or by manually editing your AWS credentials file. See the [AWS CLI documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html) for details.

## Supported Models

Kilo Code supports the following models through Bedrock (based on source code):

- **Amazon:**
    - `amazon.nova-pro-v1:0`
    - `amazon.nova-pro-latency-optimized-v1:0`
    - `amazon.nova-lite-v1:0`
    - `amazon.nova-micro-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-lite-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-express-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-embeddings-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-embeddings-v2:0`
- **Anthropic:**
    - `anthropic.claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022-v2:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-5-haiku-20241022-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-opus-20240229-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-haiku-20240307-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-2-1-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-2-0-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-instant-v1:0`
- **DeepSeek:**
    - `deepseek.r1-v1:0`
- **Meta:**
    - `meta.llama3-3-70b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-90b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-11b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-3b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-1b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-405b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-70b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-70b-instruct-latency-optimized-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-8b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-70b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-8b-instruct-v1:0`

Refer to the [Amazon Bedrock documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/models-supported.html) for the most up-to-date list of available models and their IDs. Make sure to use the _model ID_ when configuring Kilo Code, not the model name.

## Configuration in Kilo Code

1.  **Open Kilo Code Settings:** Click the gear icon (<Codicon name="gear" />) in the Kilo Code panel.
2.  **Select Provider:** Choose "Bedrock" from the "API Provider" dropdown.
3.  **Select Authentication Method:**
    - **AWS Credentials:**
        - Enter your "AWS Access Key" and "AWS Secret Key."
        - (Optional) Enter your "AWS Session Token" if you're using temporary credentials.
    - **AWS Profile:**
        - Enter your "AWS Profile" name (e.g., "default").
4.  **Select Region:** Choose the AWS region where your Bedrock service is available (e.g., "us-east-1").
5.  **(Optional) Cross-Region Inference:** Check "Use cross-region inference" if you want to access models in a region different from your configured AWS region.
6.  **Select Model:** Choose your desired model from the "Model" dropdown.

## Tips and Notes

- **Permissions:** Ensure your IAM user or role has the necessary permissions to invoke Bedrock models. The `bedrock:InvokeModel` permission is required.
- **Pricing:** Refer to the [Amazon Bedrock pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/pricing/) page for details on model costs.
- **Cross-Region Inference:** Using cross-region inference may result in higher latency.

Commit message:

Add bedrock support to docs

apps/kilocode-docs/docs/providers/bedrock.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: AWS Bedrock
---

# Using AWS Bedrock With Kilo Code

Kilo Code supports accessing models through Amazon Bedrock, a fully managed service that makes a selection of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies available via a single API.

**Website:** [https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/)

## Prerequisites

- **AWS Account:** You need an active AWS account.
- **Bedrock Access:** You must request and be granted access to Amazon Bedrock. See the [AWS Bedrock documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/getting-started.html) for details on requesting access.
- **Model Access:** Within Bedrock, you need to request access to the specific models you want to use (e.g., Anthropic Claude).
- **Install AWS CLI:** Use AWS CLI to configure your account for authentication
    ```bash
     aws configure
    ```

## Getting Credentials

You have three options for configuring AWS credentials:

1.  **AWS Access Keys (Recommended for Development):**
    - Create an IAM user with the necessary permissions (at least `bedrock:InvokeModel`).
    - Generate an access key ID and secret access key for that user.
    - _(Optional)_ Create a session token if required by your IAM configuration.
2.  **AWS Profile:**
    - Configure an AWS profile using the AWS CLI or by manually editing your AWS credentials file. See the [AWS CLI documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html) for details.
3.  **Bedrock API Key:**
    - Create a Bedrock-specific API key in the AWS Console. This is a simpler authentication method that doesn't require IAM user setup.
    - See the [AWS documentation on Bedrock credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_bedrock.html) for instructions on creating an API key.
    - This option is useful for quick setup and when you want to avoid managing IAM credentials.

## Supported Models

Kilo Code supports the following models through Bedrock (based on source code):

- **Amazon:**
    - `amazon.nova-pro-v1:0`
    - `amazon.nova-pro-latency-optimized-v1:0`
    - `amazon.nova-lite-v1:0`
    - `amazon.nova-micro-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-lite-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-express-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-embeddings-v1:0`
    - `amazon.titan-text-embeddings-v2:0`
- **Anthropic:**
    - `anthropic.claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022-v2:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-5-haiku-20241022-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-opus-20240229-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-3-haiku-20240307-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-2-1-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-2-0-v1:0`
    - `anthropic.claude-instant-v1:0`
- **DeepSeek:**
    - `deepseek.r1-v1:0`
- **Meta:**
    - `meta.llama3-3-70b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-90b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-11b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-3b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-2-1b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-405b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-70b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-70b-instruct-latency-optimized-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-1-8b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-70b-instruct-v1:0`
    - `meta.llama3-8b-instruct-v1:0`

Refer to the [Amazon Bedrock documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/models-supported.html) for the most up-to-date list of available models and their IDs. Make sure to use the _model ID_ when configuring Kilo Code, not the model name.

## Configuration in Kilo Code

1.  **Open Kilo Code Settings:** Click the gear icon (<Codicon name="gear" />) in the Kilo Code panel.
2.  **Select Provider:** Choose "Bedrock" from the "API Provider" dropdown.
3.  **Select Authentication Method:**
    - **AWS Credentials:**
        - Enter your "AWS Access Key" and "AWS Secret Key."
        - (Optional) Enter your "AWS Session Token" if you're using temporary credentials.
    - **AWS Profile:**
        - Enter your "AWS Profile" name (e.g., "default").
    - **Bedrock API Key:**
        - Enter your Bedrock API key directly. This is the simplest setup option.
4.  **Select Region:** Choose the AWS region where your Bedrock service is available (e.g., "us-east-1").
5.  **(Optional) Cross-Region Inference:** Check "Use cross-region inference" if you want to access models in a region different from your configured AWS region.
6.  **Select Model:** Choose your desired model from the "Model" dropdown.

## Tips and Notes

- **Permissions:** Ensure your IAM user or role has the necessary permissions to invoke Bedrock models. The `bedrock:InvokeModel` permission is required.
- **Pricing:** Refer to the [Amazon Bedrock pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/pricing/) page for details on model costs.
- **Cross-Region Inference:** Using cross-region inference may result in higher latency.
