apps/kilocode-docs/docs/basic-usage/adding-credits.md, before:

import { DISCORD_URL } from '@site/src/constants.ts'

# Adding More Kilo Credits

Once you've used any initial free Kilo Credits, you can easily add more:

- Add a credit card to your account (all payments are securely processed through Stripe)
- We don't currently offer a subscription, so you only pay for the credits you use, and only when you choose to top up your credits!
- Leverage your own API provider by [connecting your own API provider](/getting-started/connecting-api-provider.md)

## Transparent Pricing

At Kilo Code, we believe in complete pricing transparency:

- Our pricing matches the model provider's API rates exactly
- We don't take any commission or markup.
- $1 you give us becomes $1 of Kilo credits
- We debit your Kilo credits exactly what the provider charges us in dollars
- You only pay for what you use with no hidden fees

## Future Plans

We're continuously working to improve Kilo Code and expand our offerings:

- Additional LLM providers will be added in the future
- More payment options and other plans are under development

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions about pricing or tokens, please reach out to our [support team](mailto:hi@kilo.ai) or ask in our <a href={DISCORD_URL} target='_blank'>Discord community</a>.
:::

Commit message:

Add initial Kilo Pass docs
Added options for Kilo Pass subscription and automatic top-up.

apps/kilocode-docs/docs/basic-usage/adding-credits.md, after:

import { DISCORD_URL } from '@site/src/constants.ts'

# Adding More Kilo Credits

Once you've used any initial free Kilo Credits, you can easily add more:

- Subscribe to the [Kilo Pass](#kilo-pass), the most cost effective way to add credits.
- Enable automatic top-up, which automatically purchases additional credits when you balance dips below $5.
- Purchase additional credits.

These options are available to purchase from your personal profile page. 

You can also leverage your own API provider by [connecting your own API provider](/getting-started/connecting-api-provider.md).

## Kilo Pass

Kilo Pass is a subscription which adds credits to your account every month, along with bonus credits depending on your subscription type and duration.

* Kilo Pass purchased credits never expire.
* Kilo Pass bonus credits expire after 1 month.
* Auto-top, if configured, will automatically add additoinal credits as needed, in the event a Kilo Pass runs out of credits.

If you are a Kilo Pass subscriber and would like to change your subscriptoin tier, please [contact support](https://kilo.ai/support).

## Transparent Pricing

At Kilo Code, we believe in complete pricing transparency:

- Our pricing matches the model provider's API rates exactly
- We don't take any commission or markup.
- $1 you give us becomes $1 of Kilo credits
- We debit your Kilo credits exactly what the provider charges us in dollars
- You only pay for what you use with no hidden fees

## Future Plans

We're continuously working to improve Kilo Code and expand our offerings:

- Additional LLM providers will be added in the future
- More payment options and other plans are under development

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions about pricing or tokens, please reach out to our [support team](mailto:hi@kilo.ai) or ask in our <a href={DISCORD_URL} target='_blank'>Discord community</a>.
:::
