apps/kilocode-docs/docs/basic-usage/the-chat-interface.md, before:

import Image from '@site/src/components/Image';

# Chatting with Kilo Code

:::tip

**Bottom line:** Kilo Code is an AI coding assistant that lives in VS Code. You chat with it in plain English, and it writes, edits, and explains code for you.

:::

## Quick Setup

Find the Kilo Code icon (<img src="/docs/img/kilo-v1.svg" width="12" />) in VS Code's Primary Side Bar. Click it to open the chat panel.

**Lost the panel?** Go to View > Open View... and search for "Kilo Code"

## How to Talk to Kilo Code

**The key insight:** Just type what you want in normal English. No special commands needed.

<Image src="/docs/img/typing-your-requests/typing-your-requests.png" alt="Example of typing a request in Kilo Code" width="600" />

**Good requests:**

```
create a new file named utils.py and add a function called add that takes two numbers as arguments and returns their sum
```

```
in the file @src/components/Button.tsx, change the color of the button to blue
```

```
find all instances of the variable oldValue in @/src/App.js and replace them with newValue
```

**What makes requests work:**

- **Be specific** - "Fix the bug in `calculateTotal` that returns incorrect results" beats "Fix the code"
- **Use @ mentions** - Reference files and code directly with `@filename`
- **One task at a time** - Break complex work into manageable steps
- **Include examples** - Show the style or format you want

## The Chat Interface

<Image 
    src="/docs/img/the-chat-interface/the-chat-interface-1.png" 
    alt="Chat interface components labeled with callouts" width="750" 
    caption="Everything you need is right here"
/>

**Essential controls:**

- **Chat history** - See your conversation and task history
- **Input field** - Type your requests here (press Enter to send)
- **Action buttons** - Approve or reject Kilo's proposed changes
- **Plus button** - Start a new task session
- **Mode selector** - Choose how Kilo should approach your task

## Quick Interactions

**Click to act:**

- File paths → Opens the file
- URLs → Opens in browser
- Messages → Expand/collapse details
- Code blocks → Copy button appears

**Status signals:**

- Spinning → Kilo is working
- Red → Error occurred
- Green → Success

## Common Mistakes to Avoid

| Instead of this...          | Try this                                                         |
| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| "Fix the code"              | "Fix the bug in `calculateTotal` that returns incorrect results" |
| Assuming Kilo knows context | Use `@` to reference specific files                              |
| Multiple unrelated tasks    | Submit one focused request at a time                             |
| Technical jargon overload   | Clear, straightforward language works best                       |

**Why it matters:** Kilo Code works best when you communicate like you're talking to a smart teammate who needs clear direction.

Ready to start coding? Open the chat panel and describe what you want to build!

Commit message:

docs: add autocomplete references to chat interface guide

apps/kilocode-docs/docs/basic-usage/the-chat-interface.md, after:

import Image from '@site/src/components/Image';

# Chatting with Kilo Code

:::tip

**Bottom line:** Kilo Code is an AI coding assistant that lives in VS Code. You chat with it in plain English, and it writes, edits, and explains code for you.

:::

:::note[Prefer quick completions?]

If you're typing code in the editor and want AI to finish your line or block, check out [Autocomplete](/features/autocomplete) instead. Chat is best for larger tasks, explanations, and multi-file changes.

:::

## Quick Setup

Find the Kilo Code icon (<img src="/docs/img/kilo-v1.svg" width="12" />) in VS Code's Primary Side Bar. Click it to open the chat panel.

**Lost the panel?** Go to View > Open View... and search for "Kilo Code"

## How to Talk to Kilo Code

**The key insight:** Just type what you want in normal English. No special commands needed.

<Image src="/docs/img/typing-your-requests/typing-your-requests.png" alt="Example of typing a request in Kilo Code" width="600" />

**Good requests:**

```
create a new file named utils.py and add a function called add that takes two numbers as arguments and returns their sum
```

```
in the file @src/components/Button.tsx, change the color of the button to blue
```

```
find all instances of the variable oldValue in @/src/App.js and replace them with newValue
```

**What makes requests work:**

- **Be specific** - "Fix the bug in `calculateTotal` that returns incorrect results" beats "Fix the code"
- **Use @ mentions** - Reference files and code directly with `@filename`
- **One task at a time** - Break complex work into manageable steps
- **Include examples** - Show the style or format you want

:::info[Chat vs Autocomplete]

**Use chat** when you need to describe what you want, ask questions, or make changes across multiple files.

**Use [autocomplete](/features/autocomplete)** when you're already typing code and want the AI to finish your thought inline.

:::

## The Chat Interface

<Image 
    src="/docs/img/the-chat-interface/the-chat-interface-1.png" 
    alt="Chat interface components labeled with callouts" width="750" 
    caption="Everything you need is right here"
/>

**Essential controls:**

- **Chat history** - See your conversation and task history
- **Input field** - Type your chat instructions here (press Enter to send). For inline code suggestions while typing in the editor, see [Autocomplete](/features/autocomplete).
- **Action buttons** - Approve or reject Kilo's proposed changes
- **Plus button** - Start a new task session
- **Mode selector** - Choose how Kilo should approach your task

## Quick Interactions

**Click to act:**

- File paths → Opens the file
- URLs → Opens in browser
- Messages → Expand/collapse details
- Code blocks → Copy button appears

**Status signals:**

- Spinning → Kilo is working
- Red → Error occurred
- Green → Success

## Common Mistakes to Avoid

| Instead of this...                     | Try this                                                          |
| -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| "Fix the code"                         | "Fix the bug in `calculateTotal` that returns incorrect results"  |
| Assuming Kilo knows context            | Use `@` to reference specific files                               |
| Multiple unrelated tasks               | Submit one focused request at a time                              |
| Technical jargon overload              | Clear, straightforward language works best                        |
| Using chat for tiny code continuations | Use [autocomplete](/features/autocomplete) for inline completions |

**Why it matters:** Kilo Code works best when you communicate like you're talking to a smart teammate who needs clear direction.

Ready to start coding? Open the chat panel and describe what you want to build!
